Lg/cancan draft-Seeking some content development help from Apps! (#159)
dfinity/docs: modules/developers-guide/pages/tutorials/scalability-cancan.adoc

= Creating scalable apps
ifdef::env-github,env-browser[:outfilesuffix:.adoc]
:toc:
:toc: right
:toc-title: TUTORIAL - SCALABILITY
:toclevels: 3
:proglang: Motoko
:platform: Internet Computer platform
:IC: Internet Computer
:company-id: DFINITY
:sdk-short-name: DFINITY Canister SDK
:sdk-long-name: DFINITY Canister Software Development Kit (SDK)

The CanCan sample application is a simplified video-sharing service that demonstrates several features that you can use as models for your own applications.
For example, here are a few things you can learn by exploring the CanCan sample application:

* How to build a scalable application by splitting content into fragments for upload and storage then using queries to retrieve and reassemble the fragments for efficient streaming.

* How to configure interoperability for an application that uses canisters written in different back-end languages.

> * How to implement a basic access control model for authenticating which videos are owned by which end-users.

Reviewer: We should remove this. There is no access control for CanCan. It may have appeared superficially that way in the browser, but was not the case behind the scenes. We were missing critical features while working through the implementation and unfortunately decided to table it.

Author: Modified to be about authenticating for storing videos

Author: Modified the description to remove mention of access control

* How to build a front-end that implements more sophisticated user interface features for desktop or mobile apps.

== Splitting uploaded content into multiple canisters

Because canisters are compiled WebAssembly modules, they have certain known limitations. 

> For example, Web Assembly modules have a maximum of 4GB for memory and an upper limit on the number of object calls allowed.

Reviewer 2: I would note that these are *current* limitations of WebAssembly.

Author: Done

For a video-sharing sample applications like CanCan, these limitations mean that multiple canisters are required and that data must be broken into smaller chunks for storage and retrieval.

The initial attempt to build a scalable video-sharing service for the {IC} used a distributed hash table as a back-end service with simple get and put functions that distributed data—chunks of the video to be uploaded or streamed—into a predefined set of canisters.
In the early phases of the project, this approach was sufficient for a proof-of-concept and verifying that the video data could be properly transcoded for storage and retrieval.

> However, the scalability of the application was limited because the distributed hash table (DHT) relied on a specific number of canisters that it could populate with data for storage and retrieve data from for viewing.

Reviewer 3: Nit: Introduce DHT acronym above, when its expansion is first used.

Reviewer 4: Actually, the real reason why we introduce `BigMap` as a replacement for the `DHT` is to reduce the complexity. The {IC} protocol provides us certain guarantees that are generally not available on the regular Internet. For instance, a DHT node may disappear or lose data at any time, and on the {IC} the platform ensures that the canisters stay up and running (the part that you describe later on, as I see).

Author: Modified description

To achieve scalability, the distributed hash table (DHT) back-end service was replaced with a more robust back-end service called BigMap.

> The BigMap service is written in the Rust programming language.

Reviewer 3: The BigMap service exists in two languages (Rust and Motoko), to demonstrate that:
 - The IC both runs Motoko code and Rust code as canisters, and
 - The CanCan application is not affected by the backend language choice (both work)

Reviewer 3: - Both work, because: The Candid language provides a common (third, forth?) language for describing the BigMap API, independent of JavaScript, Rust or Motoko.

Author: Added this stuff (very helpful!)

BigMap provides a simple, plug-in library for building scalable applications using key-value storage on the Internet Computer.
By using the BigMap library as a back-end service, the CanCan sample application can dynamically chunk, serialize, and distribute data to multiple canisters.

The library offers building blocks for application-specific, in-memory data abstractions that scale using any number of canisters.
Each canister still has limited capacity, but the application instantiates the canisters it needs and keeps track of the fragments that make up the full video content for each user's videos in an index file called the `+manifest+`.

The code required for the `+BigMap+` service is much simpler than a traditional distributed hash table because the {IC} as a platform provides scalability, replication, failover, and fault tolerance.
////
BigMap written in Motoko
////
== Configuring interoperability

The CanCan sample application also demonstrates interoperability between canisters written in different languages.

> In this case, the `+BigMap+` functionality is implemented using the Rust programming language and other services—such as encoding and decoding of video content and the management of user principals for authentication—are implemented using {proglang}.

Reviewer 2: I would mention that a Motoko BigMap solution was also developed and explored. This provides another element of interoperability.

Reviewer 3: +1 --- See my review comment above, which is related.

Author: Added

By deploying different parts of the sample application as canisters, the interaction between them provides a seamless user experience.

== Access control model

Much like the LinkedUp sample application, the CanCan sample application uses the public-private key pair, browser-based local storage, and the `+Principal+` data type to authenticate users.

== Implementing front-end features

> The CanCan sample application uses the React framework and TypeScript to implement front-end user interface.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The CanCan sample application uses the React library in combination with TypeScript to implement front-end user interface.
```

== Data model overview

> The application stores information about users and information about videos.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The application stores information about users and information about videos serialized into byte arrays (. In order to support most browsers, the video data is stored in 500kb segments of bytes (stored as an link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array[Uint8Array]). When a video is requested, the manifest loads the list of chunks required to play the video, and concatenates them before displaying the video in a standard `+<video>+`  element
```

Author: Added

=== User profiles

> User profiles are stored as `+profiles/${username}+` and are defined using the following data model:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
User profiles are stored as `+profiles/{username}+` and are defined using the following data model:
```

....

> export interface Profile {
>   username: string;         // maya
>   following: string[];      // []`profiles/alice` `profiles/bob]`
>   followers: string[];      // ['profiles/alice']
>   uploadedVideos: string[]; // ['profiles/maya/videos/cool-movie_out.m3u8']
>   likedVideos: string[];    // ['profiles/bob/videos/cool-movie2_out.m3u8']
>   avatar?: string;          // ?ImageData

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
export interface Profile {
  username: string;         // maya
  following: string[];      // ['alice', 'bob']
  followers: string[];      // ['alice']
  uploadedVideos: string[]; // ['profiles/maya/videos/a5b54646-2ea3-4e0e-82d1-da3ab8148df2']
  likedVideos: string[];    // ['profiles/bob/videos/b74e4eb0-dea8-4a4a-a1ae-d4593dc86930']
  avatar?: string;          // ?ImageData (TODO)
```

}
....

=== Videos

> Uploaed videos are identified by a manifest (`+.m3u8+`) stored at `+profiles/{username}/videos/${movieName}.m3u8+` and in `+public/videos+`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Uploaded videos are identified by a manifest (`+.m3u8+`) stored at `+profiles/{username}/videos/${movieName}.m3u8+` and in `+public/videos+`.
```

> Uploaed videos are identified by a manifest (`+.m3u8+`) stored at `+profiles/{username}/videos/${movieName}.m3u8+` and in `+public/videos+`.
> Metadata for videos is stored at `+profiles/{username}/videos/${videoName}+`
> Individual video fragments following a `+${videoName}.ts+` file naming convention and are stored at `+profiles/{username}/videos/${fragmentName}+`.
> 
> Videos are stored as `+profiles/${username}+` and are defined using the following data model:
> 
> ....
> export interface Video {
>   src: string;       // 'profiles/maya/videos/cool-movie.m3u8'
>   userId: string;    // 'profiles/maya'
>   createdAt: string; // Date.now()
>   caption: string;   // 'cool movie, punk'
>   tags: string[];    // ['outside']
>   likes: string[]    // ['profiles/bob', 'profiles/carmen']
>   viewCount: number; // 100
>   name: string;
> }

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Uploaded videos are identified by a unique identifier stored at `+profiles/{username}/videos/{videoId}+` and in `+public/videos+` (an array of all existing videos on the platform).
Metadata for videos is stored at `+profiles/{username}/videos/{videoId}/metadata+`
Individual video fragments are stored at `+profiles/{username}/videos/{videoId}/chunks/chunk.{0-10}+`.

Videos are stored as `+profiles/{username}+` and are defined using the following data model:

....
export interface Video {
  src: string;       // 'profiles/maya/videos/f5a44646-2ea3-4e0f-83d2-da3ab8148df2'
  userId: string;    // 'maya'
  createdAt: string; // Date.now()
  caption: string;   // 'cool movie, punk'
  tags: string[];    // ['outside', 'grilling', 'beveragino']
  likes: string[];    // ['sam', 'kelly']
  viewCount: number; // 102
  name: string; // 'grilling'
}
```
